New CLI (#1)
GregBrimble/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-nextjs-site.md

[Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) is an open-source React framework for creating websites and apps. In this guide, you will create a new Next.js application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

## Consider if you need the Edge Runtime

> Cloudflare Pages supports full-stack Next.js projects which use the [Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/edge-runtime) or any projects which can be [statically exported](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export). The Edge Runtime allows apps to use server-side features such as [Edge API Routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes), server-side rendering (SSR) pages with [`getServerSideProps()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/data-fetching/get-server-side-props) and [Middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/middleware).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare Pages supports full-stack Next.js projects which use the [Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/edge-runtime) or any projects which can be [statically exported](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/static-html-export). The Edge Runtime allows applications to use server-side features such as [Edge API Routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes), server-side rendering (SSR) pages with [`getServerSideProps()`](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/data-fetching/get-server-side-props) and [Middleware](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/middleware).
```

> For more information about the Edge Runtime, you can check out [the official Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/react-18/switchable-runtime) which elaborates on the differences between the Edge Runtime and traditional Node.js servers, or you can [read our announcement blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/next-on-pages).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about the Edge Runtime, refer to [the official Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/react-18/switchable-runtime) which elaborates on the differences between the Edge Runtime and traditional Node.js servers, or [read the Cloudflare announcement blog post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/next-on-pages).
```

{{<render file="_tutorials-before-you-start.md">}}

> ## Creating a new project using the Edge Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a new project using the Edge Runtime
```

Create a new project using `npx` or `yarn` by running either of the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
$ npx create-next-app my-app
# or
$ yarn create next-app my-app
```

After creating your project, a new `my-app` directory will be generated using the official default template.

> ### Configuring the project to use the Edge Runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configure the project to use the Edge Runtime
```

> The default template includes a traditional Node.js-powered API route (`pages/api/hello.js`). This is incompatible with the Edge Runtime, so delete this file. If you wish to use API routes, check out the documentation on Next.js' new [Edge API Routes](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes), which offers a standards-based equivalent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default template includes a traditional Node.js-powered API route (`pages/api/hello.js`). Delete this file. It is incompatible with the Edge Runtime. If you wish to use API routes, refer to Next.js' [Edge API Routes documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes), which offers a standards-based equivalent.
```

As an example, the existing `pages/api/hello.js` file re-written as an Edge API Route would look like this:

{{<tabs labels="js | ts">}}
{{<tab label="js" default="true">}}

```js
---
filename: pages/api/hello.js
---
// Next.js Edge API Routes: https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes

export const config = {
  runtime: 'experimental-edge',
}

export default async function (req) {
  return new Response(
    JSON.stringify({ name: 'John Doe' }),
    {
      status: 200,
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
      }
    }
  )
}
```

{{</tab>}}
{{<tab label="ts" default="true">}}

```ts
---
filename: pages/api/hello.ts
---
// Next.js Edge API Routes: https://nextjs.org/docs/api-routes/edge-api-routes

import type { NextRequest } from 'next/server'

export const config = {
  runtime: 'experimental-edge',
}

export default async function (req: NextRequest) {
  return new Response(
    JSON.stringify({ name: 'John Doe' }),
    {
      status: 200,
      headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json'
      }
    }
  )
}
```

{{</tab>}}
{{</tabs>}}

> Next, we need to configure the rest of the project to use the Edge Runtime. This can be done globally by adding the following to your `next.config.js` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you must configure the rest of the project to use the Edge Runtime. This can be done globally by adding the following to your `next.config.js` file:
```

```diff
---
filename: next.config.js
---
/** @type {import('next').NextConfig} */
const nextConfig = {
+  experimental: {
+    runtime: 'experimental-edge',
+  },
  reactStrictMode: true,
  swcMinify: true,
}

module.exports = nextConfig
```

> Or, you can opt in on individual pages by exporting the following from each page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or you can opt in on individual pages by exporting the following from each page:
```

```js
export const config = {
  runtime: "experimental-edge",
};
```

> More information can be found on [Next.js' documentation about the Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/react-18/switchable-runtime).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to [Next.js' documentation about the Edge Runtime](https://nextjs.org/docs/advanced-features/react-18/switchable-runtime) for more information.
```

> ### Creating a GitHub repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a GitHub repository
```

Create a new GitHub repository by visiting [repo.new](https://repo.new). After creating a new repository, prepare and push your local application to GitHub by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh

> $ git remote add origin https://github.com/yourgithubusername/githubrepo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ git remote add origin <YOUR_GITHUB_REPO_URL>
```

$ git branch -M main
$ git push -u origin main
```

> ### Deploying with Cloudflare Pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy with Cloudflare Pages
```

Deploy your site to Pages:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/).
2. In **Account Home**, select **Pages** > **Create a project**.
3. Select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, select _Next.js_ as your **Framework preset**. Your selection will provide the following information.

{{<table-wrap>}}

| Configuration option | Value                                                 |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| Production branch    | `main`                                                |
| Build command        | `npx @cloudflare/next-on-pages --experimental-minify` |
| Build directory      | `.vercel/output/static`                               |

{{</table-wrap>}}

> {{<Aside type="warning" header="Important">}}
> 
> Next.js requires Node.js v12.22.0 or later to build successfully. To set your Node version, go to **Settings** in your Workers project > **Environment Variables (advanced)** section and add a `NODE_VERSION` variable with a value of `12.22.0` or greater.
> 
> {{</Aside>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Environment Variables (advanced)** and set a `NODE_VERSION` variable with a value of `12.22.0` or greater. Next.js requires Node.js v12.22.0 or later to build successfully.
```

Author: Done manually to fix the formatting :)

{{<Aside type="note" header="Note">}}

The `@cloudflare/next-on-pages` CLI transforms the Edge Runtime components of your project into an `_worker.js` which is deployed with [Pages Functions](/pages/platform/functions/#advanced-mode). The `--experimental-minify` argument attempts to deduplicate code that would otherwise result in your project quickly hitting the [script size limit](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/platform/limits/#worker-size). If you notice any bugs in this feature, please let us know by filing a [GitHub issue](https://github.com/cloudflare/next-on-pages/issues/).

{{</Aside>}}

> Finally, you must add two compatibility flags to your project to enable using the Streams API which Next.js relies on. On your Pages project, navigate to **Settings** > **Functions**, and **Compatibility flags**. For both production and preview, enter the following two flags: `streams_enable_constructors` and `transformstream_enable_standard_constructor`. These flags are scheduled to graduate on the 2022-11-30 compatibility date and should no longer be necessary to manually add after this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, you must add two compatibility flags to your project to enable using the Streams API which Next.js relies on. In your Pages project, go to **Settings** > **Functions** and **Compatibility flags**. For both production and preview, enter the following two flags: `streams_enable_constructors` and `transformstream_enable_standard_constructor`. 

These flags are scheduled to graduate on the 2022-11-30 compatibility date and should no longer be necessary to manually add after November 30, 2022.
```

Reviewer: Can you make a ticket to update this section after the nov 30th date?

After configuring your site, you can begin your first deploy. You should see Cloudflare Pages installing `@cloudflare/next-on-pages`, your project dependencies, and building your site before deploying it.

> ## Creating a new static project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a new static project
```

After creating your project, a new `my-app` directory will be generated using the official [`with-static-export`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/with-static-export) example as a template.

> ### Creating a GitHub repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create a GitHub repository
```

$ git push -u origin main
```

> ### Deploying with Cloudflare Pages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy with Cloudflare Pages
```

Deploy your site to Pages:

1. Log in to the [Cloudflare dashboard](https://dash.cloudflare.com/).
2. In **Account Home**, select **Pages** > **Create a project**.
3. Select the new GitHub repository that you created and, in the **Set up builds and deployments** section, select _Next.js (Static HTML Export)_ as your **Framework preset**. Your selection will provide the following information.

{{<table-wrap>}}

| Configuration option | Value            |
| -------------------- | ---------------- |
| Production branch    | `main`           |
| Build command        | `npm run export` |
| Build directory      | `out`            |

{{</table-wrap>}}

{{<Aside type="warning" header="Important">}}

Next.js requires Node.js v12.22.0 or later to build successfully. To set your Node version, go to **Settings** in your Workers project > **Environment Variables (advanced)** section and add a `NODE_VERSION` variable with a value of `12.22.0` or greater.

{{</Aside>}}

After configuring your site, you can begin your first deploy. You should see Cloudflare Pages installing `next`, your project dependencies, and building your site before deploying it.

> ## What's next?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Preview your site
```

Author: This is the end of the "fork" between static/Edge Runtime setups, so wanted to bring them back together under a common heading without needing to copy-paste the content twice. Would you rather I do copy-paste it into both sections?
